# call stack
A **call stack** is a mechanism for an interpreter (like the JavaScript interpreter in a web browser) to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions — what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function, etc.

When a script calls a function, the interpreter adds it to the call stack and then starts carrying out the function.

Any functions that are called by that function are added to the call stack further up, and run where their calls are reached.

When the current function is finished, the interpreter takes it off the stack and resumes execution where it left off in the last code listing.
If the stack takes up more space than it had assigned to it, it results in a "stack overflow" error.

``function greeting() {``
  `` // [1] Some codes here``
   ``sayHi();``
   ``// [2] Some codes here``
``}``
``function sayHi() ``{
  `` return "Hi!";``
``}``

``// Invoke the `greeting` function``
``greeting();``

``// [3] Some codes here``

``function firstFunction(){``
  ``console.log("Hello from firstFunction");``
``}``

``function secondFunction(){``
  ``firstFunction();
  console.log("The end from secondFunction");
}``

``secondFunction(``);


This is what happens when the code is run:

1. When`` secondFunction() ``gets executed, an empty stack frame is created. It is the main (anonymous) entry point of the program.
2.`` secondFunction() ``then calls firstFunction()which is pushed into the stack.
3. firstFunction() returns and prints “Hello from firstFunction” to the console.
4. firstFunction() is pop off the stack.
5. The execution order then move to secondFunction().
6. ``secondFunction() ``returns and print “The end from secondFunction” to the console.
7. `` secondFunction() ``is pop off the stack, clearing the memory.


**What causes a stack overflow?**
A stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point.

 The browser (hosting environment) has a maximum stack call that it can accomodate before throwing a stack error.

 # JavaScript error messages && debugging


 ## Types of error messages

 The first thing that indicates you that something is wrong with your code is the (in)famous error message that the one we saw just moments ago, it usually appears on your console (being developer tools of the browser, terminal or whatever else you are using).


For those already used to programming, reading an error message is like second nature, for everybody else, is something you learn either you like it or not so might as well talk a bit about each of them.

- Reference errors
  
This is as simple as when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared you get this type os errors.


- Syntax errors

I know it’s in the name of the errors, but like it says itself, this occurs when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax, like when you try to parse an invalid object using JSON.parse.

-  Range errors
Try to manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length and this kind of errors will show up.

# Debugging

To debug your JS code, 
the easiest and maybe the most common way its to simply console.log() the variables you want to check or, 

by using chrome developer tools, 

open your page with your JS code (press cmd+o in macOS or Ctrl+o in Windows) and choose your file to debug,

 click the line you wanna debug and refresh your page again (F5).

If the line you selected was run you will be able to see what has happened before that point and you can try and evaluate the next lines to check if everything is outputting what you are expecting.


The breakpoint can also be achieved by putting a debugger statement in your code in the line you want to break.

## Handling errors

About the light blue part of our earliest example of an error message, that shows up like that when we do not handle errors properly,

 meaning that anything after that error will not be executed. 
 
 To avoid this we usually try to catch the errors so we can gracefully fallback to a default state of our application in case of an error (this fallback can be a 404 page which is normally not that graceful but is better than a page to just stop working).

 # Conclusion
Being able to read error messages and practising debugging is one of your biggest weapons has a developer,


 do it frequently and with enough time you will notice a great decrease in the time you spend on each error that you find along the way. And remember, before a commit/push, remove all the debugging stuff from your code.