
Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
Composition
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
Children / Child Components
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

Hash Routing
Link Routing







Why Hooks?
We know that components and top-down data flow help us organize a large UI into small, independent, reusable pieces. However, we often can’t break complex components down any further because the logic is stateful and can’t be extracted to a function or another component. Sometimes that’s what people mean when they say React doesn’t let them “separate concerns.”

These cases are very common and include animations, form handling, connecting to external data sources, and many other things we want to do from our components. When we try to solve these use cases with components alone, we usually end up with:
1- Huge components that are hard to refactor and test.
2- Duplicated logic between different components and lifecycle methods.
3- Complex patterns like render props and higher-order components.

Do Hooks Make React Bloated?
Before we look at Hooks in detail, you might be worried that we’re just adding more concepts to React with Hooks. That’s a fair criticism. I think that while there is definitely going to be a short-term cognitive cost to learning them, the end result will be the opposite.
## 

Using the State Hook
What is a Hook? A Hook is a special function that lets you “hook into” React features. For example, useState is a Hook that lets you add React state to function components. We’ll learn other Hooks later.

When would I use a Hook? If you write a function component and realize you need to add some state to it, previously you had to convert it to a class. Now you can use a Hook inside the existing function component. We’re going to do that right now!
`import React, { useState } from 'react';`

`function Example() {`
 ` // Declare a new state variable, which we'll call "count"`
`  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);`

What does calling useState do? It declares a “state variable”. Our variable is called count but we could call it anything else, like banana. This is a way to “preserve” some values between the function calls — useState is a new way to use the exact same capabilities that this.state provides in a class. Normally, variables “disappear” when the function exits but state variables are preserved by React.

What do we pass to useState as an argument? The only argument to the useState() Hook is the initial state. Unlike with classes, the state doesn’t have to be an object. We can keep a number or a string if that’s all we need. In our example, we just want a number for how many times the user clicked, so pass 0 as initial state for our variable. (If we wanted to store two different values in state, we would call useState() twice.)

Effect Hook
You’ve likely performed data fetching, subscriptions, or manually changing the DOM from React components before. We call these operations “side effects” (or “effects” for short) because they can affect other components and can’t be done during rendering.

The Effect Hook, useEffect, adds the ability to perform side effects from a function component. It serves the same purpose as componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, and componentWillUnmount in React classes, but unified into a single API. (We’ll show examples comparing useEffect to these methods in Using the Effect Hook.)



`import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';`

`function Example() {`
 ` const [count, setCount] = useState(0);`

 ` // Similar to componentDidMount and componentDidUpdate:`
`  useEffect(() => {`
   ` // Update the document title using the browser API`
   ` document.title =` `You clicked ${count} times`;
 ` });`

`  return (`
  `  <div>`
      `<p>You clicked {count} times</p>`
     ` <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>`
      `  Click me`
      `</button>`
    `</div>`
  `);`
`}`

Effects Without Cleanup
Sometimes, we want to run some additional code after React has updated the DOM. Network requests, manual DOM mutations, and logging are common examples of effects that don’t require a cleanup. We say that because we can run them and immediately forget about them. Let’s compare how classes and Hooks let us express such side effects.
