
##  So How Do We Use Hooks
The easiest way to describe Hooks is to show side-by-side examples of a class component that needs to have access to state and lifecycle methods, and another example where we achieve the same thing with a functional component.

Below I provide a working example similar to those in the ReactJS docs, but one that you can touch and play around with, getting your hands dirty with a StackBlitz demo for each stage of our learning. So let's stop talking and start learning about React Hooks.
2- The Benefits of Using Hooks
Hooks have a lot of benefit to us as developers, and they are going to change the way we write components for the better. They already help us to write clearer and more concise code - it's like we went on a code diet and we lost a lot of weight and we look better and feel better. It brings out our jawline and makes us feel lighter on our toes. It's the one change that works for us. Just look at what React Hooks have done for others!
Class vs Functional Counter Component Example with useState
Below we follow the canonical counter component example provided in the React documentation. It's a pretty simple demo that contains a button inside of a Counter component. Once clicked, it advances the state by one and updates the state.count for rendering purposes.

##  Side-by-Side Example of useEffect
When updating state, we sometimes have side effects that need to happen along with each change. In our example of the counter, we may need to update the database, make a change to local storage or simply update the document title. In the React JS docs, the latter example is used to make things as simple as possible. So let's do just that and update our examples to have a side effect that uses the new Hook useEffect.

## Call useState and useEffect as Much as You Want
Just like with setState, you can call useState as many times as you want. Let's switch to an example that shows a slightly more involved situation where we have a name we are displaying on the page, some inputs that allow for the name to be changed, and we want control over both the first name and the last name. We can create two separate properties, each with their own update or set function, and simply call useState on each to set the default.

 ## React Hooks with Async-Await

`React.useEffect(() => {`
    `async function fetchBookList() {`
      `try {`
        `setLoading("true");`
        `const response = await fetch(`
       `);`

        ``const json = await response.json();``
        `// console.log(json);`
        `setResult(`
          `json.items.map(item => {`
            `console.log(item.volumeInfo.title);`
          `  return item.volumeInfo.title;
          })`
       ` );`
`      } catch (error) {`
        `setLoading("null");`
      `}`
    `}`

    `if (searchBook !== "") {`
      `fetchBookList();`
 `   `}``
 ` }, [searchBook]);`

## useReducer
`const [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialArg, init);`

An alternative to useState. Accepts a reducer of type (`state, action) => newState`, and returns the current state paired with a dispatch method. (If you’re familiar with Redux, you already know how this works.)

useReducer is usually preferable to useState when you have complex state logic that involves multiple sub-values or when the next state depends on the previous one. useReducer also lets you optimize performance for components that trigger deep updates because you can pass dispatch down instead of callbacks.

## Extracting a Custom Hook
When we want to share logic between two JavaScript functions, we extract it to a third function. Both components and Hooks are functions, so this works for them too!

A custom Hook is a JavaScript function whose name starts with ”use” and that may call other Hooks.

his hook makes it super easy to subscribe to data in your Firestore database without having to worry about state management. Instead of calling Firestore's query.onSnapshot() method you simply pass a query to useFirestoreQuery() and you get back everything you need, including status, data, and error. Your component will re-render when data changes and your subscription will be automatically removed when the component unmounts. Our example even supports dependent queries where you can wait on needed data by passing a falsy value to the hook. Read through the recipe and comments below to see how it works.

## useMemoCompare
This hook is similar to useMemo, but instead of passing an array of dependencies we pass a custom compare function that receives the previous and new value. The compare function can then compare nested properties, call object methods, or anything else to determine equality. If the compare function returns true then the hook returns the old object reference.

It's worth noting that, unlike useMemo, this hook isn't meant to avoid expensive calculations. It needs to be passed a computed value so that it can compare it to the old value. Where this comes in handy is if you want to offer a library to other developers and it would be annoying to force them to memoize an object before passing it to your library. If that object is created in the component body (often the case if it's based on props) then it's going to be a new object on every render. If that object is a useEffect dependency then it's going to cause the effect to fire on every render, which can lead to problems or even an infinite loop. This hook allows you to avoid that scenario by using the old object reference instead of the new one if your custom comparison function deems them equal.