Why is authentication important?
Why should we be careful about storing a user’s password?
What is the difference between hashing and encryption?
What is the difference between encryption and encoding?
What is a token used for?

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
authentication
authorization
encryption
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
session
cookie
token
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?
Basic Auth
encoding
secret

## OAuth 2 Simplified

the `OAuth 2` spec can be a bit confusing to read, so I've written this post to help describe the terminology in a simplified format. The core spec leaves many decisions up to the implementer, often based on security tradeoffs of the implementation. Instead of describing all possible decisions that need to be made to successfully implement OAuth 2, this post makes decisions that are appropriate for most implementations.


### Roles

1. The Third-Party Application: "Client"
The client is the application that is attempting to get access to the user's account. It needs to get permission from the user before it can do so.

2. The API: "Resource Server"
The resource server is the API server used to access the user's information.

3. The Authorization Server
This is the server that presents the interface where the user approves or denies the request. In smaller implementations, this may be the same server as the API server, but larger scale deployments will often build this as a separate component.

4. The User: "Resource Owner"
The resource owner is the person who is giving access to some portion of their account.

## Creating an App
Before you can begin the OAuth process, you must first register a new app with the service. When registering a new app, you usually register basic information such as application name, website, a logo, etc. In addition, you must register a redirect URI to be used for redirecting users to for web server, browser-based, or mobile apps.


- uthorization
The first step of OAuth 2 is to get authorization from the user. For browser-based or mobile apps, this is usually accomplished by displaying an interface provided by the service to the user.

OAuth 2 provides several "grant types" for different use cases. The grant types defined are:

1. Authorization Code for apps running on a web server, browser-based and mobile apps
2. Password for logging in with a username and password (only for first-party apps)
3. Client credentials for application access without a user present
Implicit was previously recommended for clients without a secret, but has been superseded by using the Authorization Code grant with PKCE.

https://github.com/bayan-97/data-structures-and-algorithms/pull/33
