What is the benefit of transforming data into packets?
UDP is often refereed to as a connectionless protocol. Why is this?
Can a socket server application have multiple socket connections?
Can a socket connection application be connected to multiple socket servers?
Can an application be both a socket server and a socket connection?

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
OSI Model
TCP Model
TCP
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
UDP
Packets
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?
Socket

## WebSocket

is a computer communications protocol, providing full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. The WebSocket protocol was standardized by the IETF as RFC 6455 in 2011, and the WebSocket API in Web IDL is being standardized by the W3C.

**Why Socket.IO?**

Writing a real-time application with popular web applications stacks like LAMP (PHP) has traditionally been very hard.

 It involves polling the server for changes, keeping track of timestamps, and it is a lot slower than it should be.

**ExpressJS**
We will be using express to build the web server that Socket.IO will work with. Any other node-server-side framework or even node HTTP server can be used. 

However, ExpressJS makes it easy to define routes and other things. To read more about express and get a basic idea about it, head to ExpressJS tutorial.

1. Difference Between WebSocket and Socket.io

- WebSocket is the communication Protocol which provides bidirectional communication between the Client and the Server over a TCP connection, WebSocket remains open all the time so they allow the real-time data transfer.

 When clients trigger the request to the Server it does not close the connection on receiving the response, it rather persists and waits for Client or server to terminate the request.

2. Socket.IO is a library which enables real-time and full duplex communication between the Client and the Web servers. It uses the WebSocket protocol to provide the interface. Generally, it is divided into two parts, both WebSocket vs Socket.io are event-driven libraries

Client Side: it is the library that runs inside the browser
Server Side: It is the library for Node.js

**io.protocol**
(Number)
The protocol revision number (currently: 4).

The protocol defines the format of the packets exchanged between the client and the server. Both the client and the server must use the same revision in order to understand each other.

`new Server(httpServer[, options])`
`httpServer (http.Server)` the server to bind to.
`options (Object)`



- The pingTimeout and pingInterval parameters will impact the delay before a client knows the server is not available anymore. For example, if the underlying TCP connection is not closed properly due to a network issue, a client may have to wait up to pingTimeout + pingInterval ms before getting a disconnect event.

- The order of the transports array is important. By default, a long-polling connection is established first, and then upgraded to WebSocket if possible. Using ['websocket'] means there will be no fallback if a WebSocket connection cannot be opened.

- `new Server(port[, options])`
`port (Number)` a port to listen to (a new http.Server will be created)
`options (Object)`

- `new Server(options)`
`options (Object)`