

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
store
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
combined reducers
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?


## Example REST API and Client#
To keep the example project isolated but realistic, the initial project setup already included a fake in-memory REST API for our data (configured using the Mirage.js mock API tool). The API uses /fakeApi as the base URL for the endpoints, and supports the typical GET/POST/PUT/DELETE HTTP methods for /fakeApi/todos. It's defined in src/api/server.js.

The project also includes a small HTTP API client object that exposes client.get() and client.post() methods, similar to popular HTTP libraries like axios. It's defined in src/api/client.js.

We'll use the client object to make HTTP calls to our in-memory fake REST API for this section.


## Redux Middleware and Side Effects#

By itself, a Redux store doesn't know anything about async logic. It only knows how to synchronously dispatch actions, update the state by calling the root reducer function, and notify the UI that something has changed. Any asynchronicity has to happen outside the store.

Earlier, we said that Redux reducers must never contain "side effects". A "side effect" is any change to state or behavior that can be seen outside of returning a value from a function. Some common kinds of side effects are things like:

- Logging a value to the console
- Saving a file
- Setting an async timer
- Making an AJAX HTTP request
- Modifying some state that exists outside of a function, or mutating - arguments to a function
- Generating random numbers or unique random IDs (such as Math.``random()`` or`` Date.now())``.

## Using Middleware to Enable Async Logic#

Let's look at a couple examples of how middleware can enable us to write some kind of async logic that interacts with the Redux store.

## Prerequisites
This post assumes you have some basic knowledge of React and Redux. You can refer to this post if you’re getting started with Redux.

This tutorial builds off of a hypothetical Todo application that tracks tasks that need to be accomplished and have been completed. We can presume that create-react-app was used to generate a new React application, and redux, react-redux, and axios have already been installed.

The finer details on how to build a Todo application from scratch are not explained here. It is presented as a conceptual setting for highlighting Redux Thunk.
Using Redux Thunk in a Sample Application
The most common use case for Redux Thunk is for communicating asynchronously with an external API to retrieve or save data. Redux Thunk makes it easy to dispatch actions that follow the lifecycle of a request to an external API.

Creating a new todo item normally involves first dispatching an action to indicate that a todo item creation as started. Then, if the todo item is successfully created and returned by the external server, dispatching another action with the new todo item. In the case where there’s an error and the todo fails to be saved on the server, an action with the error can be dispatched instead.

