Why is access control important?
its important to prevent any one enter spcific user name 
Describe an application that would need access control.
What is a role used for?
to specific access to user depend on his Permissions
Why is role based access control more scalable than discretionary or mandatory access control?

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

Capabilities
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
Authorization

What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?
Role Based Access Control

## Event-Driven Programming 

logical pattern that we can choose to confine our programming within to avoid issues of complexity and collision. In this article we’re going to go over how Event-Driven Programming works and how we can make the best use of it in our Node.js projects.


- Event-Driven Programming makes use of the following concepts:

   - An Event Handler is a callback function that will be called when an event is triggered.
   - A Main Loop listens for event triggers and calls the associated event handler for that event.

- EventEmitter

Node.js natively provides us with a useful module called EventEmitter that allows us to get started incorporating Event-Driven Programming in our project right away. Of course, creating our own version of EventEmitter wouldn’t be much of a challange, and in fact there are several modules published on npm such as EventEmitter2 and EventEmitter3 which promise a faster performance than the native EventEmitter.

- Removing Listeners
There will likely come a time when you want to remove an event listener from an event. This could be for performance reasons (the event is no longer needed) or to avoid memory leaks (if an event listener references an object that is no longer needed, it won’t be able to be garbage-collected. This can lead to a build up of unnecessary objects)



`chatRoomEvents.removeListener('message', displayMessage);`

- Object Oriented Programming + Event-Driven Programming

The last thing I want to touch on here is the combination of the Object Oriented and Event-driven programming paradigms. These two make for a very valuable combination in a wide variety of situations and I think it can be beneficial to understand and conceptualize why.

Much of the Node.js core API is built around an idiomatic asynchronous event-driven architecture in which certain kinds of objects (called "emitters") emit named events that cause Function objects ("listeners") to be called.

For instance: a net.Server object emits an event each time a peer connects to it; a fs.ReadStream emits an event when the file is opened; a stream emits an event whenever data is available to be read.

All objects that emit events are instances of the EventEmitter class. These objects expose an eventEmitter.on() function that allows one or more functions to be attached to named events emitted by the object. Typically, event names are camel-cased strings but any valid JavaScript property key can be used.

When the EventEmitter object emits an event, all of the functions attached to that specific event are called synchronously. Any values returned by the called listeners are ignored and discarded.


emitter.addListener(eventName, listener)#
`Added in: v0.1.26`
`eventName <string> | <symbol>`
`listener <Function>`
`Alias for emitter.on(eventName, listener).`


