


React Native

Many different kinds of people use React Native: from advanced iOS developers to React beginners, to people getting started programming for the first time in their career. These docs were written for all learners, no matter their experience level or background.


## How to use these docs#
You can start here and read through these docs linearly like a book; or you can read the specific sections you need. Already familiar with React? You can skip that section—or read it for a light refresher.


## Function Components and Class Components#
With React, you can make components using either classes or functions. Originally, class components were the only components that could have state. But since the introduction of React's Hooks API, you can add state and more to function components.

Learn the Basics
React Native is like React, but it uses native components instead of web components as building blocks. So to understand the basic structure of a React Native app, you need to understand some of the basic React concepts, like JSX, components, state, and props. If you already know React, you still need to learn some React-Native-specific stuff, like the native components. This tutorial is aimed at all audiences, whether you have React experience or not.

## What's going on here?#
First of all, we need to import React to be able to use JSX, which will then be transformed to the native components of each platform.
On line 2, we import the Text and View components from react-native
Then we find the HelloWorldApp function, which is a functional component and behaves in the same way as in React for the web. This function returns a View component with some styles and aText as its child.

The Text component allows us to render a text, while the View component renders a container. This container has several styles applied, let's analyze what each one is doing.

The first style that we find is flex: 1, the flex prop will define how your items are going to "fill" over the available space along your main axis. Since we only have one container, it will take all the available space of the parent component. In this case, it is the only component, so it will take all the available screen space.

The following style is justifyContent: "center". This align children of a container in the center of the container's main axis and finally we have alignItems: "center", which align children of a container in the center of the container's cross axis.

Some of the things in here might not look like JavaScript to you. Don't panic. This is the future.

First of all, ES2015 (also known as ES6) is a set of improvements to JavaScript that is now part of the official standard, but not yet supported by all browsers, so often it isn't used yet in web development. React Native ships with ES2015 support, so you can use this stuff without worrying about compatibility. import, from, class, and extends in the example above are all ES2015 features. If you aren't familiar with ES2015, you can probably pick it up by reading through sample code like this tutorial has. If you want, this page has a good overview of ES2015 features.