Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
props.children

Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
composition
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

## A Simple React Router v4 Tutorial

React Router v4 is a pure React rewrite of the popular React package. Previous versions of React Router used configuration disguised as pseudo-components and could be difficult to understand. With v4, everything is “just components”.

In this tutorial, we will be building a single-page application website for a local sports team. We will go over all of the basics needed to get our site up and routing. This will include:

1- Choosing our router
2- Creating our routes
3- Navigating between routes using links

## The Router
When starting a new project, you need to determine which type of router to use. For browser based projects, there are <BrowserRouter> and <HashRouter> components. The <BrowserRouter> should be used when you have a server that will handle dynamic requests (knows how to respond to any possible URI), while the <HashRouter> should be used for static websites (where the server can only respond to requests for files that it knows about).

Usually it is preferable to use a <BrowserRouter>, but if your website will be hosted on a server that only serves static files, then the <HashRouter> is a good solution.

For our project, we will assume that the website will be backed by a dynamic server, so our router component of choice is the <BrowserRouter>.

## History
Each router creates a history object, which it uses to keep track of the current location 1 and re-render the website whenever that changes. The other components provided by React Router rely on having that history object available through React’s context, so they must be rendered as descendants of a router component. A React Router component that does not have a router as one of its ancestors will fail to work.

If you are interested in learning more about the history object (I think that this is important), you can check out my blog post A Little Bit of History.
## Hooks

React Router ships with a few hooks that let you access the state of the router and perform navigation from inside your components.

## useLocation

The useLocation hook returns the location object that represents the current URL. You can think about it like a useState that returns a new location whenever the URL changes.This could be really useful e.g. in a situation where you would like to trigger a new “page view” event using your web analytics tool whenever a new page loads.

`<BrowserRouter>`
A `<Router>` that uses the HTML5 history API (pushState, replaceState and the popstate event) to keep your UI in sync with the URL.
**basename: string**
The base URL for all locations. If your app is served from a sub-directory on your server, you’ll want to set this to the sub-directory. A properly formatted basename should have a leading slash, but no trailing slas