Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?
cookies
authorization
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
access control

What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?
conditional rendering

## Redux 
Redux provides a solid, stable and mature solution to managing state in your React application. Through a handful of small, useful patterns, Redux can transform your application from a total mess of confusing and scattered state, into a delightfully organized, easy to understand modern JavaScript powerhouse.

The principles of Redux aren't new, but they are packaged and presented for you in an easy to use library that not only elevates your applications, but also improves your general understanding of building JavaScript UIs.

## Reducers
Just a quick refresher on what reducer is before we go into testing and code. Redux documentation is still great, in fact it covers unit tests really well you don’t even have to read this post. To summarize it, the reducer is a pure function that takes the previous state and an action, and returns the next state.
What to test
Usually reducer consists of initial state and switch statement to handle every action. I like to break down my store into different sub-stores and have separate reducers for each sub-store. Sometimes one switch/case may handle few actions, because the business logic is the same and outcome should be the same. Some example GET_POST and UPDATE_POST should update the same store and produce same outcome.

Add tests and mock data
From here, we can just start filling in the tests one by one. I also like to create mock files and store the API response at the time of testing. So I can test agains “real” data. This strategy uncovered few accidental API changes where the response was changed without any warning. Instead of blaming anyone, we can just look at the mock data and see what’s expected on the front end.

