## Context
In a typical React application, data is passed top-down (parent to child) via props, but this can be cumbersome for certain types of props (e.g. locale preference, UI theme) that are required by many components within an application. Context provides a way to share values like these between components without having to explicitly pass a prop through every level of the tree.

## Before You Use Context
Context is primarily used when some data needs to be accessible by many components at different nesting levels. Apply it sparingly because it makes component reuse more difficult.

`<Page user={user} avatarSize={avatarSize} />`
`// ... which renders ...`
`<PageLayout user={user} avatarSize={avatarSize} />`
`// ... which renders ...`
`<NavigationBar user={user} avatarSize={avatarSize} />`
``// ... which renders ...``
`<Link href={user.permalink}>`
 ` <Avatar user={user} size={avatarSize} />`
`</Link>`

Creates a Context object. When React renders a component that subscribes to this Context object it will read the current context value from the closest matching Provider above it in the tree.

The defaultValue argument is only used when a component does not have a matching Provider above it in the tree. This can be helpful for testing components in isolation without wrapping them. Note: passing undefined as a Provider value does not cause consuming components to use defaultValue.


``<MyContext.Provider value={/* some value */}>``
## Necessity for the Design System
After performing an audit on how we communicate with our users, we landed with a simple system of three classes of communication, and snackbars fit perfectly on the ‘low priority’ end of that spectrum. They are small notifications that show up on the screen when a user performs an action. They are not intrusive at all and appear for just a brief moment.
