


Name 5 Javascript UI Frameworks (other than React)
1- Ext JS by Sencha
2-Angular
3- Vue
4-Ember
What’s the difference between a framework and a library?

Libraries are the older concept and these are just collection of utility classes/methods your code calsl upon to get some functionality. Frameworks, on the other hand, contain some functionality or flow and calls your code to extend or make the flow a specific one. The principle of frameworks calling your code is known as "Inversion of Control.

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

Rendering
Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?
Templates
What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

State



#  React

React is a JavaScript library,

React example:
`ReactDOM.render(`
 ` <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,`
`  document.getElementById('root')`
`);`

**It is called JSX**


it is a syntax extension to JavaScript. We recommend using it with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX may remind you of a template language, but it comes with the full power of JavaScript.

## Why JSX?

React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

Instead of artificially separating technologies by putting markup and logic in separate files, React separates concerns with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both. We will come back to components in a further section, but if you’re not yet comfortable putting markup in JS, this talk might convince you otherwise.


**Embedding Expressions in JSX**

`const name = 'Josh Perez';`
`const element = <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>;`

`ReactDOM.render(`
 ` element,`
 ` document.getElementById('root')`
`
**JSX Represents Objects`**


`const element = (`
 ` <h1 className="greeting">`
  `  Hello, world!`
  `</h1>`
`);`
`const element = React.createElement(`
  `'h1',`
 ` {className: 'greeting'},`
  `'Hello, world!'`
`);`


***Rendering Elements***

Applications built with just React usually have a single root DOM node. If you are integrating React into an existing app, you may have as many isolated root DOM nodes as you like.

`<div id="root"></div>`

To render a React element into a root DOM node, pass both to` ReactDOM.render()`:

`const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;`
`ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));`

**Updating the Rendered Element**

React elements are immutable. Once you create an element, you can’t change its children or attributes. An element is like a single frame in a movie: it represents the UI at a certain point in time.

`function tick() {`
  `const element = (`
   ` <div>`
    `  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>`
     ` <h2>It is {new Date().toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>`
  `  </div>`
  `);`
  `ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));`
`}`

`setInterval(tick, 1000);`

Even though we create an element describing the whole UI tree on every tick, only the text node whose contents have changed gets updated by React DOM.

